Okay, so thank you for doing for today's interview. Can you tell me a little bit about yourself?
18 years old, thank you.
These are 18 years. Okay. And please, your occupation, what do you do?
I'm 18 years old, I'm not working.
Okay, but what did you used to do before?
I was a nurse.
Okay, please, what are some of your responsibilities now that you are home? What do you normally do?
The main responsibility, I eat.
You eat?
I want to go for dinner, I eat.
Okay.
I don't have anything to do, I just watch TV.
Okay.
I want to eat.
Watch TV, eat, relax.
Okay.
I want to eat.
And please, your family size?
Yeah, this is my wife.
Okay.
She's quite a big patient.
And please, how was the duration of when you were diagnosed, the duration of the illness?
30 years ago.
30 years ago, that's hypertension or diabetes?
No, combined.
Okay, that's 30 years ago. So how has this condition affected your daily life?
Poor baby.
What did you say?
Poor baby, I don't have money, but you saw a man who bought medication.
Oh, okay, okay.
So can you tell me a little bit about the care that you receive for this condition?
About the care you receive when you come to the hospital?
The care?
Yes, what are some of the things that you have?
I get the care, but I'm delayed too much.
Okay.
Hospital. Okay.
So what are some of the experiences you have seen when managing or the experiences you have gotten
when managing the condition over this time?
What are some of the experiences?
Experiences?
Yes.
Like what?
It really happens that I get a big heart to accommodate all these guys.
So what challenges do you face?
What?
The challenges you face during this time.
Money, money.
Money, money.
Money matters.
Money matters.
Okay, so in terms of medication adherence.
Yes, yes.
Why are you able to follow the medication, like through the medication?
Are you able to take your drugs?
You do it.
So do you believe that food or diet plays a role in managing the condition?
Yes, very much.
Very much?
Yes, diet and medication.
Okay, so tell me a little bit about what diet has done in managing this medication.
Maybe you've reduced a certain amount of the quantity of food that you've seen your children eat.
That is true.
That's true.
Chopping, you sleep or chop and go to wake up.
That's about you.
The normal way.
Oh, okay.
But since for this time, have you been receiving nutrition counseling every time you come here?
If I come on, maybe I have a nutrition counselor.
Okay.
They advise you.
Okay.
Whenever you come here?
Not every time.
When I come back and I see the dietitian, what is the issue?
What is the issue?
So when was the last time you saw the dietitian?
Last two years or three years.
Last two years.
Okay.
Okay, so what are some of the experiences with the dietitian?
When you're following the dietary recommendation, are you able to, say, buy the food that they ask you to buy or follow the dietary recommendations day in and day out?
I try to follow.
I try to abide by the service.
I'm not following it.
Really?
I try.
You try.
But what are some of the challenges you face trying to eat in the way that your dietitian...
One is money for your money.
I can do all the...
Thanks.
...that I already have to watch for.
I sometimes manage it.
But is the food available to you?
Do you think if you have the money, you can go buy it?
Yes.
Please, there is a health intervention, that's a health program, that do not only advise people on what to eat, but actually they try to provide coupons and vouchers to people in order to get food at a very low price.
That is done in other countries.
That is one.
Another one is maybe giving foodstuffs to people at a low cost or free.
And the third one is you actually going to the hospital and meals being cooked for you.
Which of these interventions do you think is feasible in Ghana and you can include into this policy?
Ghana, the question is what would be good for me is not good for you.
I don't think that's...
The question is...
It's vague.
You know what I would like?
That's why I want to know what you would like.
Let's see, that's what the majority would...
I'm married and my wife follows me everywhere. I give the money or the food to the people.
The foodstuffs instead, not the one that is being cooked.
I give the money to the people.
Oh, okay.
So you prefer they giving you the foodstuffs, go and prepare your own thing, instead of they giving it to you at the hospital, cooking the food.
Okay.
Or the money.
Or the money.
Then please, I also want to ask, if you go to the dietician, do you pay money to the dietician?
No, no, no. I'm entitled.
You're entitled.
You went to the dietician.
I'm entitled.
Okay.
So can you describe any time you go to see the dietician, what are some of the things she asks you?
Does she give you any chat? Do you follow any chat or something?
What does she normally tell you?
Chat.
Maybe she gives you a chat or...
They advise you what to eat, completely.
Just advise on what to eat.
Chat.
So if the Ghana Medical Transfer, that is the Mahamake, if it's providing nutrition support,
what would you prefer to receive?
The money.
The money.
Okay.
So what might prevent patients, in general, from not receiving this nutrition benefit,
if it is being included into the Ghana Medical Transfer?
What do you think will prevent patients or people from not getting this benefit?
Getting this benefit, if it is included into the Ghana Medical Transfer, maybe in the near future?
Do you think anything will prevent people from not going for it?
Okay, what about you?
Would something prevent you from not going?
No, I don't think so.
Thank you.
So, thank you. Do you have anything to say or add, or you want the policy makers to hear?
I want the policy makers to go.
You say?
Go and buy this and I will go get it.
The money.
I will go get it.
I will go get it quickly.
You can't benefit.
I will just be fine.
Okay.
Thank you so much for your time.
Yes, please. Thank you so much.
I'm going to go.
Oh.
Because if you talk to me...
Yes, you have to take the name.
That's $24,000. You don't have to pay me back.
Yes, let me see.
